# Creating open resources for an introductory data science course

## Abstract

Open-source educational resources have many benefits for both instructors and learners alike. Cost-savings for learners, quick iteration on materials for instructors, and increasing the quality of the resources through collaboration are some of those advantages. Given that data science has embraced open source in such a big way, teaching data science should include teaching with open source data science tools and sharing educational resources.  [*ML: Do we need to introduce a "problem/challenge" here? e.g. Given data science is a new field, data science resources are ...? Creating open-source resources can be challenging because blah? Maybe something about testing on students?*] In this talk, we will discuss an open source textbook and complementary assessments for introducing students to data science that we have created at the University of British Columbia. These resources were built authentically [*ML: not sure what you mean by authentically here?*] using open source data science practices and tools (e.g., R, bookdown, Python, Jupyter, Git & GitHub) and have been tested in a first-year undergraduate course over three years on thousands of students. Specifically, we will comment on the initial objectives of the project and how they evolved, tooling choices we made and their rationale, our collaboration strategy, and several challenges we faced throughout the project and how we overcame those challenges.
